IT'S A NORMAL PART
OF GROWING UP.
- YOU'RE GONNA RUIN THAT CHAIR.
- NO, TO GROWN UP FOR NAP.
BUT WHAT'S THE LINE
BETWEEN JUST TESTING LIMITS,
AND SOMETHING
FAR MORE SERIOUS?
TODAY,
A REMOTE ISLAND
AND A NEW CONCEPT IN HELP
FOR TROUBLED KIDS...
THEY CAN'T RUN FROM
THE PROGRAM AND THEY CAN'T
RUN FROM THEIR FEELINGS.
Narrator:
...AND HOW TO READ SIGNALS
YOUR OWN CHILD
MAY BE HEADED FOR TROUBLE.
WHEN A PARENT REALIZES
THAT THEY FEEL LIKE THEY DON'T
LIKE THEIR CHILD ANYMORE...
SHE SAID, "I'M RUNNING AWAY,"
AND SHE STARTED RUNNING
THROUGH A CROWD.
...WELL, I'D CERTAINLY TRY
TO GET BELOW THE SURFACE.
Narrator:
"BRAZELTON ON PARENTING."
( theme music playing )
IN THE PAST FEW YEARS
SOME INNOCUOUS NAMES
HAVE TAKEN ON NEW MEANING
FOR US.
NAMES LIKE COLUMBINE
AND JONESBORO.
VIOLENCE IN OUR YOUNG PEOPLE
HAS REACHED NEW LEVELS
OF SHOCK AND HORROR.
TODAY WE'RE GONNA TAKE
A CLOSER LOOK
AT KIDS IN TROUBLE,
AND EXPLORE NEW WAYS
TO HELP THEM.
WE BEGIN WITH A TRIP
TO A REMOTE ISLAND
OFF THE COAST
OF MASSACHUSETTS
AND A PROGRAM COMMITTED
TO THE PRINCIPLE
THAT THERE IS NO CHILD
WHO CAN'T BE SAVED.
Brazelton:
IT'S AN ISLAND
IN THE MIDDLE OF NOWHERE.
IT'S LOCATION
MEASURED NOT IN LATITUDE
AND LONGITUDE,
BUT IN THE HUMAN SUFFERING
IT'S SEEN.
YOU SEE,
100 YEARS AGO,
PENIKESE ISLAND WAS USED
AS A LEPER COLONY.
NOW IT'S HOME TO A DIFFERENT
TYPE OF OUTCAST--
TEENAGE BOYS WHO HAVE
NO PLACE ELSE TO GO,
BOYS LIKE WHITNEY BYRNE.
Pam Brighton:
SIX MONTHS AGO
I MET WHITNEY
FOR THE FIRST TIME.
HE CAME OUT TO THE ISLAND
WITH HIS FATHER,
ALTHOUGH THEY
WERE TOGETHER.
Whitney:
I COULDN'T EVEN TALK
WITH MY PARENTS
WITHOUT LIKE GOING OFF AT THEM.
I WAS ARGUING EVERYTHING.
LIKE, IF I WERE ASKED
TO DO SOMETHING I WAS LIKE,
"AW, SCREW YOU."
WHIT WAS IN A SCHOOL
IN ACTON.
Felice Pomeranz:
HE PROMPTLY GOT EXPELLED
FROM THAT SCHOOL.
HE GOT DEEPER
AND DEEPER INTO TROUBLE.
HE'S BEEN A KID WHOSE--
WHOSE HAD SOME DEEP-
SEATED ANGER.
Mother:
THERE WAS NOTHING THAT NEITHER
MICHAEL NOR I COULD SAY,
DO THAT WAS GONNA HAVE
VERY MUCH IMPACT.
Brighton:
AND WHITNEY WAS ALSO GETTING
IN TROUBLE WITH THE LAW.
HE HAD A NUMBER OF CHARGES
THAT MOUNTED UP,
AND UH...
HE WAS FACED AT THAT POINT
WITH A CHOICE OF,
"WELL, THERE'S PENIKESE
OR THERE'S JAIL."
CHOSE TO COME HERE.
Brazelton:
THE PENIKESE ISLAND SCHOOL
IS A LAST STOP FOR MANY KIDS
LIKE WHITNEY.
George Cadwalder:
THESE KIDS ARE SOCIETY'S
PARIAHS.
IT'S HARD FOR SOCIETY
TO LIKE DELINQUENT KIDS.
PENIKESE, DAVE MASCH.
Brazelton:
DAVE MASCH, CO-FOUNDER
OF PENIKESE,
HAS BEEN WORKING WITH TROUBLED
CHILDREN FOR 30 YEARS.
Masch:
YOU WANNA GO ACROSS
THIS PART HERE.
CONCENTRATING ON
GETTING THE PRESSURE
OUT IN THE MIDDLE.
Masch: IN THE BEGINNING
WE DEALT MOSTLY WITH THESE
DELINQUENT BOYS.
BUT NOW WE'RE GETTING
KIDS OFTEN
THAT HAVE MORE BEHAVIORAL
AND PSYCHOLOGICAL PROBLEMS
THAN OUR EARLY KIDS DID.
THE CRIMINAL KIDS TEND
TO BE SURVIVOR TYPES
AND ALL THE KIDS WE HAVE NOW
ARE KIDS THAT,
UM, WOULD POSSIBLY
HURT THEMSELVES.
SO, JOHN,
WHAT ARE YOU WRITING THERE,
OR IS IT A SECRET?
IT'S A SECRET.
Brazelton:
THESE ARE TODAY'S LOST BOYS.
MOST WILL TELL YOU THEY DON'T
WANT TO BE FOUND.
Brighton:
THEY ARE PROS
AT BEING ABLE TO GET PEOPLE
TO GIVE UP ON THEM.
YOU KNOW, THEY'VE DEVELOPED
THAT STYLE.
AND IT'S SORT OF
A, UM,
"I KNOW YOU'RE GONNA GIVE UP
ON ME EVENTUALLY,
SO, YOU KNOW,
YOU CAN'T FIRE ME. I QUIT."
( pigs squealing )
Brazelton:
WHITNEY WAS READY TO QUIT
AS SOON AS HE ARRIVED.
FIRST IMPRESSION WAS--
I SAW THE PIGS AND I WAS LIKE,
"HELL NO, I DON'T WANNA
BE HERE."
Brazelton:
PIGS?  OH YES, THE PIGS.
YOU SEE, PENIKESE HAS
NO TELEVISION,
NO ELECTRICITY,
NO RUNNING WATER.
Man:
YOU GUYS WANNA GIVE A HAND
GETTING THESE BOTTLES?
Brazelton:
OTHER THAN THE SUPPLIES
THAT COME IN ONCE A WEEK
BY BOAT, THE BOYS ARE
ENTIRELY SELF-SUFFICIENT.
IF YOU WANT HEAT,
CHOP WOOD.
BREAKFAST?
FEED THE CHICKENS.
YOU'LL HAVE EGGS.
Masch:
I THINK IT GIVES THE KID
SOME IDEA OF THE VALUE
OF WORK.
Brazelton:
CONDITIONS ARE HARSH
AT PENIKESE,
BUT IT ISN'T A BOOT CAMP.
WE'VE LEARNED THAT WHILE
THEY SOUND LIKE AN ANSWER,
BOOT CAMPS RARELY WORK.
BUT PENIKESE DOES HAVE
A MESSAGE.
Masch:
WE ALSO LIKE KIDS TO LEARN
THAT THEY'RE NOT VICTIMS
TOTALLY,
THAT THEY HAVE SOME CONTROL
OVER THEIR LIVES.
AND THAT WHAT THEY DO AFFECTS
NOT ONLY THEIR WELL-BEING,
BUT THE PEOPLE AROUND THEM.
AND THIS IS A LESSON
THAT'S NOT TOO OFTEN SEEN
IN THE MODERN WORLD.
...AND WORK ALL DAY.
Brazelton:
WHEN THEY LEAVE HERE,
THESE BOYS
WILL HAVE TO DEAL
WITH THE MODERN WORLD.
AND FOR THAT
THEY NEED EDUCATION.
BUT WE DON'T USE
TRADITIONAL CLASSROOM STUFF.
Brazelton:
THAT WHY IT'S PENIKESE
ISLAND SCHOOL.
SO IT'S 31.5 INCHES LONG.
- WHAT'S HALF OF 31?
- HALF OF 30?
WHAT'S HALF OF 30?
- 15?
- 15, EXACTLY.
Masch:
THESE KIDS AREN'T DUMB.
WE'VE HAD KIDS OUT HERE
THAT REALLY DON'T KNOW
THE DAYS OF THE WEEK.
WHAT THEY HAVEN'T HAD
IS ANY EDUCATION
TO SPEAK OF.
Brazelton:
BUT THE KIDS LEARN SOMETHING
EVEN MORE VALUABLE.
- NICE ART.
- THANKS, MAN.
Brighton:
THE BIGGEST PIECE OF WHAT
WE DO IS WE TEACH KIDS
RELATIONSHIP SKILLS,
AND TEACH THEM
THAT THEY CAN DISCOVER
THEIR OWN SENSE OF WORTH
AND ANSWER THE QUESTION,
"DO I MATTER?"
Brazelton:
AS PEOPLE WHO WORK
WITH TROUBLED CHILDREN
HAVE DISCOVERED,
THESE ARE THE REAL SURVIVAL
SKILLS THE KIDS NEED.
Virginia Root:
PENIKESE IS A PLACE WHERE
THEY CAN LIVE
AND BE COMFORTABLE
WITHOUT ANY BARS OR LOCKS.
BUT STILL,
THEY CAN'T REALLY RUN AWAY.
THEY CAN'T RUN
FROM THE PROGRAM
AND THEY CAN'T RUN
FROM THEIR FEELINGS.
Brazelton:
AS FOR WHITNEY...
Masch:
AFTER HE GOT OVER
HIS INITIAL SKEPTICISM
HE BEGAN TO BLOSSOM.
Whitney:
WHEN I WAS HOME, I TOOK A LOT
OF THINGS FOR GRANTED
LIKE HEAT, ELECTRICITY
AND ALL THAT.
BUT YOU END UP REALIZING
WHAT YOU'VE TAKEN FOR GRANTED
ONCE YOU'RE OUT HERE
FOR A WHILE.
Michael:
I THINK THAT WHIT IS NOW,
AFTER BEING OUT HERE,
THAT HE--
HE FEELS BETTER ABOUT HIMSELF,
HAS A BETTER SELF-IMAGE.
Brazelton:
SO MUCH BETTER
THAT AFTER SIX MONTHS
ON PENIKESE,
WHITNEY IS READY
TO SAY GOODBYE.
LATER IN OUR SHOW,
WHITNEY'S LAST DAY
ON PENIKESE ISLAND.
I'M GONNA MISS THIS PLACE
EVEN THOUGH AT TIMES
I HATED IT.
WITH US TODAY
IS CRYSTAL HOLMES,
OUR INTERNET EXPERT
FROM IBM.
CRYSTAL, WHAT'S AVAILABLE
ONLINE FOR PARENTS
WHO THINK THAT THEIR CHILDREN
NEED SPECIAL HELP
FOR BEHAVIORAL ISSUES?
THERE ARE A LOT OF RESOURCES
AVAILABLE ON THE INTERNET.
THE FIRST SITE WE'RE GONNA
GO TO TODAY
IS THE "ADOLESCENCE DIRECTORY
ON-LINE."
TEENAGE YEARS ARE A VERY
DIFFICULT TIME,
AND IF PARENTS ARE STRUGGLING
WITH BEHAVIORAL ISSUES,
THEY CAN GO ON TO THIS SITE
AND LOOK AT SEVERAL
DIFFERENT TOPICS,
INCLUDING CONFLICT
AND VIOLENCE,
HEALTH
AND HEALTH RISKS.
THERE'S EVEN A POINT
ON THIS SITE
WHERE TEENS CAN GO
AND SEARCH THE SITE
AND GET INFORMATION
THAT THEY WOULD LIKE.
ANOTHER SITE
THAT'S OF VALUE
IS THE AMERICAN ACADEMY OF CHILD
AND ADOLESCENT PSYCHIATRY.
ON THIS SITE
WE'LL ACTUALLY GO IN
AND WE CAN DO A SEARCH WORD
ON THE WORD "VIOLENCE."
AND WE SEE THAT THERE'S
A WEALTH OF INFORMATION
RANGING FROM PREVENTION
AND TREATMENT OF JUVENILE
VIOLENCE
TO CHILDREN AND TV VIOLENCE.
ONE THING FOR US
TO REMEMBER,
THE INTERNET IS A RESOURCE,
IT'S NOT A CURE.
BUT THIS IS INFORMATION
THAT WE CAN USE TO INFORM
OURSELVES
AND DETERMINE
IF WE NEED TO TALK TO
A HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONAL.
YOU KNOW, I THINK
EVERY PARENT TODAY WONDERS
EVERY TIME A CHILD GETS
OUT OF CONTROL,
IS HE GONNA END UP
LIKE COLORADO OR ARKANSAS?
SO THIS HAS GOT TO BE
REASSURING TO PARENTS.
OUR INTERNET QUESTION TODAY
COMES FROM KELLY
IN MOUNT PLEASANT, MICHIGAN.
HER QUESTION READS,
"ONE OF MY TWIN TWO-YEAR-OLD
BOYS IS GOING THROUGH A PHASE
OF BEATING HIS HEAD ON THINGS
AND THROWING FITS WHENEVER
THERE IS CONFLICT.
HIS TWIN IS BEGINNING
TO EXHIBIT THE SAME BEHAVIOR
WHEN HIS BROTHER
THROWS A FIT.
SHOULD I STEP IN WHEN HE
HEAD-BUTTS HIS BROTHER?
IS HE IN DANGER OF HURTING
HIMSELF OR SOMEONE ELSE?
I CAN SEE
WHY YOU'RE WORRIED,
BECAUSE THIS IS PRETTY
VIOLENT BEHAVIOR.
IT'S TRUE THAT IT'S NORMAL
AT TWO YEARS OF AGE,
AND THE THING THAT YOU TELL ME
WHICH I'M MOST REASSURED BY
IS THAT IT ALWAYS COME UP
AT A TIME WHEN YOU
COULD EXPECT IT.
A TWO-YEAR-OLD JUST DOES
LIE DOWN ON THE FLOOR
AND HAVE A TEMPER TANTRUM,
OR BUTT HIS HEAD ON THE FLOOR.
AND THEY AREN'T GONNA REALLY
HURT THEIR HEADS THAT WAY.
BUT THIS IS AIMED
AT THE TWIN.
AND OF COURSE,
THIS IS PEAKING AT A TIME
WHEN SIBLING RIVALRY
IS COMING TO THE SURFACE.
THE OTHER TWIN BETTER LEARN
HOW TO TAKE CARE OF HIMSELF.
BUT I GUESS THE ONE THING
I WOULD URGE YOU TO THINK ABOUT
IS ARE YOU REINFORCING
IT BY YOUR ANXIETY?
MAYBE THERE ARE WAYS YOU COULD
INTERFERE IN OTHER WAYS,
LIKE PICKING HIM UP
AND LOVING HIM
AT A TIME WHEN YOU KNOW
HE'S GONNA BE UPSET.
OR TALKING TO HIM ABOUT IT
IN BETWEEN.
"YOU KNOW, WHENEVER YOU GET
UPSET YOU LIE DOWN ON THE FLOOR
AND SCREAM OR YOU BUTT
YOUR HEAD INTO THE FLOOR,
OR YOU BUTT YOUR BROTHER.
IS THERE A WAY I CAN HELP YOU?"
AND EVEN AT TWO, I THINK YOU
CAN BEGIN TO COMMUNICATE
WITH HIM IN A WAY THAT MAY
HELP HIM LATER ON.
IT MAY TAKE A WHILE.
Brazelton:
FOR MORE RESOURCES
VISIT US ONLINE AT...
ING"
PRESENTED BY THE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT pampers.com.
JOINING US TODAY
IS DR. JOSHUA SPARROW,
CHILD PSYCHIATRIST
FROM CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL
IN BOSTON.
JOSH, PARENTS ARE SO WORRIED
TODAY ABOUT AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR
OR OUT-OF-CONTROL BEHAVIOR
IN THEIR CHILD.
AND I WONDER, CAN YOU
GIVE US SOME GUIDELINES
ABOUT WHEN THEY SHOULD BE
WORRIED ABOUT BEHAVIORS
IN THEIR CHILDREN?
I THINK THE FIRST TIME
TO START WORRYING
IS WHEN A PARENT REALIZES
THAT THEY FEEL LIKE THEY DON'T
LIKE THEIR CHILD ANYMORE.
THAT'S THE WORST
KIND OF FEELING
A PARENT CAN HAVE
ABOUT THEIR OWN CHILD.
I THINK IF YOU FEEL AS IF
SOMEHOW THE LOVE IS GONE,
THAT'S DIFFERENT THAN THE KIND
OF ANGER AND FRUSTRATION
THAT EVERY PARENT HAS
TO FEEL FROM TIME TO TIME
WITH THEIR CHILD.
AND I WOULD SAY
THAT THE NEXT SIGN
IS VERY SIMILAR,
AND THAT'S WHEN
OTHER KIDS DON'T LIKE
THEIR CHILD EITHER.
AT AGES THREE OR FOUR,
CHILDREN ARE STILL WORKING
VERY HARD
AT LEARNING HOW TO MAKE
FRIENDS, AS THEY DO, OF COURSE,
ALL THE WAY THROUGH.
BUT CERTAINLY BY FIVE
OR SIX, CHILDREN ARE WORKING
ON MAKING FRIENDSHIPS
AND SHOULD BE ABLE TO HOLD
ON TO A COUPLE.
BUT IF THEY FIND THEMSELVES
GOING OUT AND MAKING FRIENDS
WHO JUST DON'T STICK,
AND DISCOVERING THAT ONE FRIEND
AFTER ANOTHER
JUST CHOOSES NOT TO BE
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM,
IT MAY BE BECAUSE THE CHILD
IS TOO RIGID OR TOO INFLEXIBLE.
DO YOU THINK THESE KIDS
ARE JUST SO TIED UP
IN THEMSELVES,
THEY CAN'T BE
SENSITIVE TO OTHER--
OTHER PEOPLE?
I WOULD LOOK
AT IT THIS WAY--
I WOULD THINK ABOUT
THE CAPACITY TO BE FLEXIBLE
AND TO NEGOTIATE
OR TO COMPROMISE
AS A SPECIAL KIND
OF SKILL
THAT DEVELOPS AT DIFFERENT
RATES IN DIFFERENT CHILDREN.
AND IN THESE CHILDREN,
IT MAY DEVELOP MORE SLOWLY
THAN IN OTHERS.
AND PROBLEM WITH IT
IS THAT THEY START
LOSING OUT ON FRIENDSHIPS,
AND THEN, OF COURSE,
THEY FEEL TERRIBLY ABOUT
THEMSELVES BECAUSE THEY KNOW
THAT THEY'RE FAILING.
THEY KNOW THAT THEY'RE
BEING REJECTED.
AND THOSE ARE THE KIDS
THAT BECOME BULLIES
AND SORT OF TRY TO TAKE ALL
THE ATTENTION AWAY
FROM ALL THE OTHER KIDS
IN SCHOOL?
I THINK SOME OF THOSE
CHILDREN WILL HAVE NO CHOICE
BUT TO BECOME BULLIES.
BECAUSE THE ONLY WAY
THAT THEY WILL BE ABLE
TO MANAGE WITHOUT NEGOTIATING
AND WITHOUT COMPROMISING
IS TO TRY TO ALWAYS HAVE IT
THEIR WAY BY USING FORCE.
BUT I THINK THERE IS
ANOTHER KIND OF CHILD
WHO I WOULD WORRY ABOUT,
WHO IS WITHDRAWN.
AND I'M NOT TALKING
ABOUT A CHILD WHO IS
TEMPERAMENTALLY SHY,
BECAUSE THAT CHILD
CAN OPEN UP
WITH CLOSE FAMILY MEMBERS.
BUT A CHILD WHO IS
WITHDRAWN FROM EVERYBODY,
WHO'S UNREACHABLE
OR INCOMMUNICATIVE,
IS ANOTHER KIND OF CHILD
THAT I WOULD WORRY ABOUT.
SORT OF THESE
HYPERSENSITIVE KIDS THAT YOU
REALLY CAN'T BREAK THROUGH
THESE SHELLS THEY'VE
PUT AROUND THEM.
AND WHERE YOU WORRY
THAT SOMETHING IS GOING
ON INSIDE THEM
AND THEY JUST HAVE NO WAY
OF SHOWING YOU.
IF YOU HAVE THE SENSE
THAT THERE REALLY IS
VERY LITTLE
THAT YOUR CHILD CAN
FEEL GOOD ABOUT
FOR THEMSELVES,
IF THEY'RE CRITICAL ABOUT
JUST ABOUT EVERY ASPECT
OF THEIR BEHAVIOR,
THEN I THINK IT'S
PRETTY CLEAR.
IF A CHILD,
ON THE OTHER HAND,
HAS A BALANCED PERSPECTIVE,
WHERE THEY CAN BE
HONEST ABOUT
WHERE SOME CRITICISM
OF THEMSELVES MIGHT
BE WARRANTED
AND CAN RECOGNIZE,
ON THE OTHER HAND,
SOME OF THEIR STRENGTHS
AND SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT THEY HAVE TO BE PROUD OF,
THAT KIND OF BALANCE, I THINK,
IS A HOPEFUL SIGN.
IF YOU'RE ABLE TO MAINTAIN
A RELATIONSHIP
WITH YOUR ADOLESCENT
WHERE THEY KEEP TALKING
TO YOU,
THEY KEEP ON TELLING
YOU WHAT'S GOING ON,
WHERE THEY FEEL
THEY CAN BE OPEN WITH YOU--
NOT ABOUT EVERYTHING,
BECAUSE CERTAINLY THEY NEED
TO DO SOME THINGS ON THEIR OWN
AND NOT TELL YOU--
BUT IF THERE'S STILL
COMMUNICATION, YOU MAY NOT
HAVE TO FEEL
THAT YOU KNOW
ABOUT ALL OF THE WORKINGS
OF THEIR INNER LIFE.
AND THAT'S DIFFICULT,
BUT PERHAPS NOT QUITE
SO INTIMIDATING.
I THINK I'M BEGINNING
TO UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU SAID
WHICH I COULDN'T UNDERSTAND,
THAT YOU COULD
FEEL LIKE A PARENT
AND HATE YOUR CHILD,
OR NOT LIKE YOUR CHILD.
THAT YOU REALLY AREN'T
COMMUNICATING WITH A CHILD
WAY BACK IN THE THIRD
OR FOURTH YEAR
IS A VERY DIFFICULT SIGN.
THAT'S RIGHT.
I THINK IT'S HARD TO PICTURE,
BECAUSE IT'S FAIRLY EXTREME.
- IT IS.
- AND I THINK YOU'RE RIGHT,
THAT THAT'S WHEN
YOU NEED TO WORRY.
GREAT, WELL,
THANK YOU.
THAT GIVES ME INSIGHTS.
IT SCARES THE HELL
OUT OF ME,
- BUT IT GIVES ME INSIGHTS.
- I'M SORRY THAT I SCARED
YOU SO MUCH.
Brazelton:
NEXT, WE TALK TO PARENTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
Woman:
WE'VE SOLD OUT.
WE HAVE OVER 900 PEOPLE.
Brazelton:
EACH YEAR WE TRAVEL
ALL OVER AMERICA...
Man:
OUR COMMUNITY IS SO
EXCITED ABOUT THIS--
Brazelton:
...TO ANSWER QUESTIONS
FROM THOUSANDS OF PARENTS.
Man:
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
DR. T. BERRY BRAZELTON.
Brazelton:
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM.
GOOD MORNING,
MY NAME IS JEANIE
AND I HAVE A DAUGHTER
WHO WILL BE FIVE YEARS OLD
NEXT MONTH.
AND WITHIN THE LAST
COUPLE OF MONTHS
SHE'S DECIDED TO TAKE UP
RUNNING AWAY FROM HOME.
THE FIRST TIME IT HAPPENED
WE KIND OF LAUGHED IT OFF,
'CAUSE WE NEVER EXPECTED IT
AND IT WAS PRETTY COMICAL.
SHE WENT UP TO HER ROOM
AFTER BEING REPRIMANDED
WITH AN ARMFUL OF CLOTHES
AND TWO PAIRS OF SHOES ON TOP
AND SHE SAID,
"I'M GOING TO GRAMMY'S."
HE SAID, "WELL IT TAKES THREE
HOURS TO DRIVE TO GRAMMY'S.
DO YOU KNOW HOW LONG
IT'S GONNA TAKE TO WALK THERE?"
AND THE SECOND TIME
WAS ACTUALLY MORE SERIOUS.
WE WERE IN--
I ACTUALLY HAD HER ALONE
WITH SOME OTHER CHILDREN
AT AN AMUSEMENT PARK.
AND SHE WAS--
STARTED TO GET
INTO A MELTDOWN
AND SHE JUST TOOK OFF
FROM ME.
SHE SAID,
"I'M RUNNING AWAY"
AND SHE STARTED RUNNING
THROUGH A CROWD.
AND I HAD THESE OTHER KIDS
I NEEDED TO TAKE CARE OF
- AND SHE'S RUNNING, AND--
- SCARY.
YEAH, IT WAS REALLY--
THAT WAS DEVASTATING.
AND THAT'S WHEN I SAID,
"THERE'S SOMETHING MORE
GOING ON HERE."
I DON'T THINK RIGHT THEN
IS THE RIGHT TIME TO DISCUSS
IT, FOR ONE THING.
'CAUSE SHE'S TOO UPTIGHT
AND SHE'LL THROW ANYTHING
BACK AT YOU
THAT COMES TO YOUR MIND
OR HERS.
SO I'D WAIT
TILL ANOTHER TIME
WHEN YOU'RE CLOSE TO HER,
WHEN YOU'RE HAVING A TIME
WITH HER ALONE.
TALK ABOUT HOW MUCH
YOU LOVE HER,
AND HOW IT FRIGHTENS YOU
WHEN SHE HAS THESE IDEAS
ABOUT RUNNING AWAY.
AND SEE IF YOU CAN GET
TO WHAT'S UNDERNEATH.
THANK YOU.
- HI.
- HI, GOOD MORNING.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
I HAVE A FOUR-AND-A-HALF-
YEAR-OLD SON
AND I'M CONCERNED ABOUT SOME
AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIORS.
I THINK WHAT BOTHERS ME
THE MOST IS
THAT SOMETIMES
IT'S UNPROVOKED.
IT'S, UH...
PUSHING, SHOVING
ANOTHER CHILD
FOR NO APPARENT REASON.
I'M WONDERING IF THERE
IS SOME CONFUSION
WITH HIM BETWEEN ROUGH-HOUSING
WITH MY HUSBAND
AND WITH OLDER COUSINS--
OLDER KIDS,
AND BEING WITH PEERS
THE SAME AGE.
HOW DOES HIS DAD
DEAL WITH IT?
WELL, HE DOESN'T WORRY
ANYWAY THE WAY I WORRY
ABOUT STUFF.
AND DAMN IT!
WHY DOESN'T HE JOIN ME?
( laughs )
WHY?
I THINK HE...
FEELS PRETTY COMFORTABLE
WITH MY SON'S LEVEL OF--
MAYBE I SHOULDN'T EVEN
CALL IT AGGRESSION.
I DON'T KNOW,
IT'S JUST IT'S VERY DIFFERENT.
IT DOESN'T MATTER
WHAT YOU CALL IT.
AGGRESSION IS A GOOD WORD
FOR WHAT IT IS.
YEAH, BECAUSE IT IS COMING
TO THE SURFACE.
ALL LITTLE BOYS
THIS AGE DO.
IT'S WHY
THEY HAVE NIGHTMARES,
FEARS ABOUT--
NEW FEARS ABOUT THINGS,
BECAUSE ALL OF THIS
IS BOILING UP INSIDE THEM.
AND THEY NEED TO LEARN
HOW TO DEAL WITH IT.
AND THIS IS WHERE HIS DADDY
COMES IN SO HANDY.
'CAUSE AS HE CAN IDENTIFY
WITH HIS DADDY
AND HOW HIS DADDY HANDLES
HIS OWN AGGRESSION,
HE'LL GET SOME IDEAS ABOUT
HOW TO HANDLE IT SAFELY.
THEY AREN'T THE ONES
THAT BECOME SERIAL KILLERS
LATER, AS FAR AS I KNOW.
YOU KNOW, THAT'S-- I--
MAYBE, YOU KNOW, ALWAYS
IN THE BACK OF THINGS
YOU THINK, WELL, WHAT HAPPENED
TO THOSE BOYS?
- YEAH.
- YOU KNOW, BY THE TIME
THEY HIT HIGH SCHOOL
WHAT WAS IT
IN THEIR DEVELOPMENT?
AND THAT'S VERY SCARY.
WELL, I CAN ALMOST
GUARANTEE YOU
THAT THE BOYS
WHO HAVE FATHERS
WHO CAN GIVE THEM WAYS
OF DEALING
WITH SOME OF THESE
AGGRESSIVE FEELINGS
ARE NOT ANYWHERE
NEAR AS LIKELY
TO BE AT RISK FOR THIS.
SO MAYBE YOUR PART
OF YOUR JOB IS TO STEP BACK
A LITTLE BIT NOW
AND GIVE
HIS DADDY A CHANCE.
- OKAY.
- ( sighs )
G,"
PRESENTED BY THE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT pampers.com.
PARENTS HAVE TO EXPECT
THEIR KIDS TO TEST LIMITS.
THAT'S WHAT KIDS
ARE SUPPOSED TO DO.
AND I THINK PARENTS
CAN BE REASSURED
THAT MOST MISBEHAVIOR
FALLS WITHIN THAT NORMAL
EXPECTED RANGE.
BUT YOU'RE THE BEST JUDGE.
IF YOU THINK THE BAD BEHAVIOR
IS SOMETHING MORE,
SEEK HELP, STARTING
WITH YOUR PEDIATRICIAN.
THE EARLIER YOU TAKE ACTION,
THE QUICKER YOU CAN GET
YOUR CHILD BACK ON TRACK.
LIKE WHITNEY BYRNES,
JUVENILE DELINQUENT,
JUST MAYBE
EX-DELINQUENT.
THE REASON WHY WE
HAVE GRADUATION...
Brazelton:
NOW, AFTER SIX MONTHS
OF HARD WORK,
IT'S GRADUATION DAY
AT PENIKESE ISLAND SCHOOL.
WE TALK ABOUT PENIKESE
BEING A PROGRAM OF CHOICE
AND, UM,
HOW MUCH GROWTH AND CHANGE
DEPENDS ON THE CHOICE
AND THE MOTIVATION
OF THE STUDENT HIMSELF,
NO MATTER WHAT WE DO.
SO HERE'S A TANGIBLE SYMBOL
OF YOUR INTANGIBLE CHANGE.
THAT'S NOT BAD.
( laughs )
CONGRATULATIONS,
WHIT.
Brazelton:
WHITNEY'S PARENTS GOT HIM
THE HELP HE NEEDED.
WELL, THERE ISN'T--
THERE ISN'T ANYWAY
I CAN...
REALLY...
Brazelton:
THE SUREST SIGN
OF A PARENT'S LOVE.
...THANK ALL OF YOU
THAT ARE, YOU KNOW...
ASSOCIATED
WITH THIS PROGRAM.
I JUST--
I CAN'T PUT IT IN WORDS.
BUT WE'RE EXTREMELY
PROUD OF WHIT,
AND IT'S NOT JUST
OF WHAT HE'S ACCOMPLISHED,
BUT IT'S, UH...
WE'RE PROUD
OF WHO HE IS.
Brazelton:
AS FOR WHITNEY'S FUTURE...
Brighton:
I WISH I KNEW WHAT
THE CHANCES WERE
FOR A LOT OF THE KIDS
THAT LEAVE HERE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY ARE
FOR WHITNEY.
I KNOW THAT HE HAS PARENTS
THAT ARE ABSOLUTELY
DEVOTED TO HIM.
AND, BOY, THAT COUNTS
FOR A LOT.
Felice:
I THINK WHEN YOU HAVE SOMEONE
WHO YOU LOVE
VERY VERY MUCH,
AND THEY'RE
HAVING PROBLEMS--
BUT YOU MUST NEVER GIVE UP,
I THINK, YOU MUST NEVER
GIVE UP ON A CHILD.
SEE YOU, WHIT.
( theme music playing )